Step three.
Sift the flour, salt, and
baking soda into a mixing bowl.
Mix them together thoroughly.
If you don't have a sifter,
you can use a whisk instead.
It's important to break
up the tiny clumps
and mix the
ingredients together.
Step four.
Pour the butter, the brown
sugar, white sugar, and vanilla
into the second mixing bowl.
Mix the butter and
sugars until you
have a smooth, consistent,
semi-thick liquid.
To ensure your cookies are
light, fluffy, and not flat,
be sure to beat the mixture
for at least four minutes.
This is where an electric
mixer can be helpful.
During mixing, be sure to
periodically scrape the bowl
and add it back
into the mixture.
If too much of the
ingredients are
left on the side
of the bowl, you
will have inconsistent results.
Step five.
Add the two eggs to
the wet ingredients.
Beat the mixture
for another minute
to get the eggs
thoroughly mixed in.
Step six.
Slowly add the dry ingredients
to the wet ingredients bowl.
Add in a small amount at a time,
beating the mixture constantly.
You'll want to keep an eye
out for clumping flour.
Step seven.
Mix in the chocolate chips.
Add these in slowly,
being sure to mix them
in well between each addition.
If they are all
added at once, they
may congregate into
groups, giving your cookies
an inconsistent amount of
chocolate chips from cookie
to cookie.